---
title: "Me and God"
date: 2005-08-23T21:08:00Z
lastmod: 2026-01-13T23:34:40.395Z
aliases:
  - /2005/08/me-and-god.html
---
When it comes to god, that we all have complex beliefs, different ideas and some inherent fear and apprehension. Well, I started questioning about god in my 7th standard, I was an atheist by choice. My usual arguments were, god does not exist because we cant see him. But then there was this ‘You cant see air, Don’t the air exist?’. So, I used to argue out of my childishness. Later on, when I reflected back it was because I enjoyed that recognition.


Why God?

One thing is very obvious. There is something extraordinary about nature. The pattern, the structure, the interdependencies, the balance… everything. Its so well planned and I bet you cant come out with any damn idea as to how the creation could have better been than what it is now. You will be astonished by the complexity involved and also by the simplicity with which it all exists. All you can do is wonder – who has got such brains?

To make it more solid, lets ask very simple questions to ourselves. Why are our eyes where it is now? Which other position could have been better? OMG its not an easy task. There has to be some force which is driving all this – right? Well, this is what is GOD.

God and our lives.

Now it’s a different matter altogether. I respect the concept of god and relegion. Why is this perception necessary for everybody?

When we dig a little deeper we realize that everything we are and we can be is a result of our thoughts. The 14 pound mass between our shoulders is the most wonderful thing in this world. There are different ways in which we can control our thoughts and actions and see that it does not go out of the boundaries and affect our fellow living creatures. One such force is ‘FEAR’. There are other forces too, which many of us don’t realize.

In this process, we develop perceptions of GOD which make us suffer. We fear GOD, we pray to god, we blame god, we praise god….. but what is that we are actually doing? We are doing all this to our own minds without realizing that we have to take the responsibility instead of going to GOD for all this.

There are lots of instances where we can see certain apprehensions, fears that come associated with our belief in God/Religion. In our worship of God we form certain habits. For example, we will be having a particular sequence of saying mantras, a particular set of rituals to perform, a particular number of times we do namaskara etc.. All this is good, only when we know that these procedures are done by us, and no God will ask you to do it. In the process, we form obstacles to our otherwise free and unprejudiced mind. Everyone of us would have felt the uneasiness of breaking one such sequence. Once due to some reason, we have not done the right number of namaskaras and Lo! We have that gnawing feeling in the corner of our mind, and anything that goes wrong that day will be rightly associated with our mistake.

These habits might be under a limit in majority of us. But when it is embraced without proper thinking it leads to more complex beliefs and obstacles. I have seen a guy in bangalore who goes in the same road to the college every day because there are quite a few temples on the way and in front of every temple he would stop, remove his footwear and do ‘2’ namaskaras. He was the guy who did 1 hr pooja everyday morning without fail. When he does so much and still he has constricted himself in the stupid ritual what is the use of worshipping God?

Its time we question what we have been doing just because we have been doing it and we really don't know the reason. It might be of no use today.

My Perception

I see god as my friend. I talk to him, say good morning and good night to him. I always belive that anything that happens with a person is good and there is nothing bad in this world as such. Everything thing has its own value, its own beauty in its own place. I am always filled with wonder and nothing else when I look at nature. I want to savour every moment, enjoy every second of my life.

Before going to sleep every day I say to God 'Life's Beautiful. Good night baby'. I know this sounds crazy but ultimately its all your mind and I want to be curious and enthusiastic as a child inside. So there I am, foolish and hungry...(OMG, its 9:00 in the night and I am still in the company!)
