---
title: "SRKS Home"
date: 2006-07-08T15:21:00Z
lastmod: 2026-01-13T23:34:40.394Z
tags:
  - srks home
aliases:
  - /2006/07/srks-home.html
---
I know I haven't bothered to write a word in my journal though I have my own laptop now and 24 Hrs internet. I dont even know why I am writing this blog. Memories started swirling in my head, am not sure why. Probably its one of those euphoric experiences which makes you feel happy because now you are able to connect the dots..now you know how much meaning those days added to your life.

I had a pressing financial situation when I first set out to do my BE. I wanted to join some good college but later I compromised to join JSSATE in bangalore because thats where Sri Ramakrishna Student's Home is. For those of you who are wondering what this is, in short its HOME. Its a place meant for students who are not able to support themselves financially but still want to pursue their studies. Long ago in 1919 this hostel was established with the very same ideal of supporting poor and meritorious students. They did not know what to call it, HOSTEL - its not even close describing what it is, they called it HOME, and I can bet my whole life that it is Home, for students like me.

I did everything there, right from cleaning toilets, washing corridors, scrubbing greasy kitchen vessels, maintaining long list of accounts, walking miles to different houses and collecting money from those donors because thats how our hostel got funds. There were children on the streets who called us Postman, Delivery boys, and people who didn't even bother to open their doors but gave us money through small holes in their windows. I knew what it means to have a cycle when I had to walk/spend money for buses. There were times, when I walked from Rajajinagar to basavanagudi not wishing to buy a bus ticket. We organized functions, cooked food for 100 people who took all the advantage of our hostel just because they donated the money. In short we did everything. I sometimes felt whether doing all this will ever help in my life. I was hurt because I could never live a carefree life even to this day... I always had responsibilities, I always had pressure, I always had uncertainities.

But I knew whatever it was, that place was there for me. It was there for me to make me a better person, a stronger individual, to make me realize what reality is, to make me love others, to make me help wherever I can, to shatter my Ego, to be what I am now. I loved that place, i can tell you because I can feel the resonance, i can feel the harmony with the atmosphere inside, i can feel the pulse in every brick of that building. I never cried for anything from the days I remember properly. But the last day in my hostel, I could not control my emotions, I knew I owe my life to that place. My eyes were blurred with small drops of tears when my secretary was speaking to me the last day. I liked him, respected him, in fact I can never remember anybody whom I respected so much.

I donated to Home from my first salary and I was so happy when I received a handwritten letter of my secretary as reply. Things have moved so fast, its barely an year I graduated, 11 months since I left SRKS Home. Now here I am sitting so far away and wondering why I am writing this blog. I know I will feel stupid when I read it again, but I love that place!! I am glad that I was a part of the Home and Home will be a part of me throughout my life!!
